add page for ecs explorer (#26084)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/infrastructure/containers/amazon_elastic_container_explorer.md

---
title: Amazon Elastic Container (ECS) Explorer
aliases:
  - /infrastructure/containers/amazon_elastic_container_explorer
---

{{< img src="infrastructure/livecontainers/orch_ecs_ex.png" alt="ECS Explorer displaying ECS tasks." style="width:80%;">}}

## Overview

The Datadog Agent and Datadog Amazon ECS integration can retrieve ECS resources for the [ECS Explorer][1]. This feature enables you to monitor the status of EC2 and Fargate tasks, services, and other ECS components across all of your AWS accounts. You can view resource specifications for tasks within a service and correlate them with related logs, metrics, profiling, and more.

### Prerequisites

* **[AWS resource collection][10]**: Required for collecting ECS resources.
* **[ECS on EC2 integration][2]**: Required for monitoring clusters using the EC2 launch type.
* **[ECS on Fargate integration][3]**: Required for monitoring clusters using the Fargate launch type.

> * **Agent version >= 7.58.0**: Recommended for a shorter refresh rate on the ECS Explorer page, though it is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Datadog Agent version >= 7.58.0**: Recommended for a shorter refresh rate on the ECS Explorer page.
```

Since we're already saying this is only recommended, it is already understood that it's optional

## Setup

> Ensure you have enabled the [AWS resource collection][10], [ECS on EC2 integration][2] and [ECS on Fargate integration][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you have enabled [AWS resource collection][10], the [ECS on EC2 integration][2], and the [ECS on Fargate integration][3].
```

If using the [task definition to install the Datadog Agent][4], add this environment variable to the Datadog Agent container to activate this feature.

```yaml
{
  "containerDefinitions": [
    {
      "name": "datadog-agent",
      "environment": [
        {
          "name": "DD_ECS_TASK_COLLECTION_ENABLED",
          "value": "true"
        }
        # (...)
      ]
      # (...)
    }
  ],
# (...)
}
```

[4]: /containers/amazon_ecs/?tab=awscli#setup

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Configuration File" %}}
For manual configuration, include the following line in the Datadog Agent configuration file.

```yaml
ecs_task_collection_enabled: true
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Usage

### Views

Use the **Select Resources** dropdown menu in the top left corner of the page to switch between **Tasks**, **Services**, **Clusters**, and other ECS resources.

Each view includes a data table for organizing information by fields such as status, name, and AWS tags, along with a detailed Cluster Map to provide an overview of your tasks and ECS clusters.

Refer to [Query filter details](#query-filter-details) for information on filtering these views.

#### Group by functionality and facets

> Group tasks by tags for an aggregated view that helps you find information more efficiently. You can group tasks using the "Group by" bar located at the top right of the page or by clicking on a specific tag and finding the group by function in the context menu, as illustrated below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Group tasks by tags for an aggregated view that helps you find information more efficiently. You can group tasks using the **Group by** bar located at the top right of the page or by clicking on a specific tag and finding the group by function in the context menu, as illustrated below.
```

Other tabs provide additional information for troubleshooting the selected resource:

* **Related Resources**: View all related resources in a tree structure.
* [**Logs**][5]: Access logs from your container or resource. Click on any log entry to view the full log details in the Log Explorer.
* [**Metrics**][6]: View live metrics for your container or resource. You can maximize any graph for full-screen viewing, share a snapshot, or export it from this tab.
* [**APM**][7]: Access traces from your container or resource, including details such as date, service, duration, method, and status code.
* **Processes**: See all processes running in the resource's containers.
* **Network**: View network performance metrics for a container or resource, including source and destination, sent and received volume, and throughput. Use the **Destination** field to filter by tags like `DNS` or `ip_type`, or use the **Group by** filter to group network data by tags, such as `task_name` or `service`.
* **Monitors**: View monitors that are tagged, scoped, or grouped for this resource.

## Query filter details

> You can refine displayed resources by entering a query in the "Filter by" search bar at the top left of the page. The query filtering operates similarly to the filtering in the [Kubernetes Explorer][8].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refine displayed resources by entering a query in the **Filter by** search bar at the top left of the page. The query filtering operates similarly to the filtering in the [Kubernetes Explorer][8].
```

### AWS tags

In the ECS Explorer, you can use `tag#` to search across both Datadog tags and AWS tags.

### Extracted tags

> In addition to the tags you have [configured][9] in your Datadog agent, Datadog generates additional tags based on resource attributes, which can assist in your searching and grouping needs. These tags are conditionally added to resources when relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the tags you have [configured][9] in your Datadog Agent, Datadog generates additional tags based on resource attributes, which can assist in your searching and grouping needs. These tags are conditionally added to resources when relevant.
```

* `ecs_<resource_name>`: Resource name tags, such as `ecs_task`, `ecs_task_definition`, `ecs_service`, and more.

#### Relationships

Related Resources are tagged in relation to one another. Some examples include:

- A task belonging to the "XYZ" service, with an ARN of `XYZ-ARN`, can have tags `ecs_service:xyz` and `service_arn:xyz-arn`.
- A service that is part of the "XYZ" cluster, identified by the ARN `XYZ-ARN`, can have tags `ecs_cluster:xyz` and `cluster_arn:xyz-arn`.

> **Tip:** Use the filter query autocomplete feature to explore available related resource tags. Type `ecs_` to see suggested results.

#### Resource specific tags

Some resources have specific tags. The following tags are available in addition to the shared tags mentioned above.

| Resource | Extracted Tags |
|---|---|
| **Task** | `task_family`<br>`task_version`<br>`task_launch_type` |
| **Task Definition** | `task_family`<br>`task_version`<br>`task_launch_type`<br>`task_definition_status` |
| **Service** | `task_family`<br>`task_version`<br>`task_launch_type`<br>`service_status` |

## Notes and known issues

> * Installing Datadog Agent in your cluster affects how often the ECS Explorer refreshes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installing the Datadog Agent in your cluster affects how often the ECS Explorer refreshes:
```
